Most of all, I want to thank the American people.  To serve as your President has been an honor beyond description.  Thank you for this extraordinary privilege.  And that’s what it is—a great privilege and a great honor.

We must never forget that while Americans will always have our disagreements, we are a nation of incredible, decent, faithful, and peace-loving citizens who all want our country to thrive and flourish and be very, very successful and good.  We are a truly magnificent nation.

All Americans were horrified by the assault on our Capitol.  Political violence is an attack on everything we cherish as Americans.  It can never be tolerated.

Now more than ever, we must unify around our shared values and rise above the partisan rancor, and forge our common destiny.

Four years ago, I came to Washington as the only true outsider ever to win the presidency.  I had not spent my career as a politician, but as a builder looking at open skylines and imagining infinite possibilities.  I ran for President because I knew there were towering new summits for America just waiting to be scaled.  I knew the potential for our nation was boundless as long as we put America first.

So I left behind my former life and stepped into a very difficult arena, but an arena nevertheless, with all sorts of potential if properly done.  America had given me so much, and I wanted to give something back.

Together with millions of hardworking patriots across this land, we built the greatest political movement in the history of our country.  We also built the greatest economy in the history of the world.  It was about “America First” because we all wanted to make America great again.  We restored the principle that a nation exists to serve its citizens.  Our agenda was not about right or left, it wasn’t about Republican or Democrat, but about the good of a nation, and that means the whole nation.

With the support and prayers of the American people, we achieved more than anyone thought possible.  Nobody thought we could even come close.